# CS-320-Portfolio

# How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?
The testing of code is the best way to ensure everthing that you have written is fully functional and as scecure as possible. In my work for project one you will see that I designed and wrote many different Junit tests to do just this, each Junit test was designed to test a certain funcionality of the system. Junit tests are great for testing code that you can't just run on the spot and check for errors, the Junit test will let you run specific portions of the code and verify that the correct ouput is recieved for the desired input. 

# How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?
User needs are usually laid out in the form of a requirements document. In this document user needs have been turned into a desired functionality and then it is up to the developer to implement code that perform the desired functionality. In the requirements document it doesn't detail how the code should be written to address this specific need so it leaves the developer with a bit of freedom as to how to implement it. As long as the requirments document has been reviewed and confirmed to capture all the user needs then the developer shouldn't have any issues addressing those needs with specific functions inside of the program.

#How do I approach designing software?
Personally when I first begin designing new software I will review the provided documentation to get a good idea of the desired functionalities of the system. After a thorough review of the documents I will make a basic layout of the program with pen and pencil so I can really see how the pieces should fit together, I may even brainstorm a bit and write some psuedocode to get a good foundation point to start from. Pseudocode generally helps me figure out the logic problems early on. After all of this is done I will begin my work on actually writing the code. I am really trying to get into the habit of testing my code more frequently as I write it, to do this I have been testing my code in chunks after writing a few lines of code. I feel like this has really helped me out as now I can identify problem areas early on before things get overly complicated. Once I have all the code written I will go back through and ensure that my testing covers 80% or more of my code and once everything tests good I will commit my changes to the master.
